Update readme to include performance testing report (#43)
ubuntu-rocks/chiselled-jre: README.md

Read more about the repository structure and build automation in [here](<https://github.com/ubuntu-rocks/.github/blob/main/profile/README.md#-joining-the-ubuntu-rocks-project>).

## Image characteristics

> 

Reviewer: could you maybe add a few lines making the case for "why this comparison is being made?" , "why this temurin image in particular and not any other 3rd party jre?"

Author: I looked for images that are both popular and available and that's what I am coming up with:

According to Jetbrains 2022 survey of [Developer Ecosystem](https://www.jetbrains.com/lp/devecosystem-2022/java/) 60% of the developers still regularily used Java 8, 59% developed applications for Apache Tomcat and 67% used Spring Boot as an alternative to an application server.

New Relic 2022 [Java Ecosystem report](https://newrelic.com/resources/report/2022-state-of-java-ecosystem) listed following top 3 JDK vendors:
 - Oracle Corporation 34.48%
 - Amazon 22.04%
 - Eclipse Adoptimum 11.48%
 - Azul Zulu build of OpenJDK 16%

Snyk 2021 [JVM Ecosystem](https://snyk.io/jvm-ecosystem-report-2021/) had the following breakdown:
 - Eclipse Adoptimum 44%
 - Oracle Corporation OpenJDK 28%
 - Oracle Corporation JDK 23%
 - Azul Zulu build of OpenJDK 16%
 - Amazon Coretto 8%

The differences in the vendor distribution could be attributed to the audience providing survey responses.

The chiselled JRE container is built based on Ubuntu 22.04 version of Java 8 runtime - `8u352-b08`.

This section provides a comparison with readily-available JRE 8 images for Ubuntu 22.04:
 - Eclipse Adoptium: `eclipse-temurin:8u352-b08-jre-jammy`
 - Amazon: `amazoncorretto:8u352-alpine3.14-jre`

Azul Zulu does not provide a JRE image: https://hub.docker.com/r/azul/zulu-openjdk and it was not evaluated.
Oracle does not provide official image of the Java Runtime Environment 8 and it was not evaluated.

Author: The major points of difference with Corretto image are:
 - Corretto deploys busybox as a shell
 - Corretto does not have fontconfig/fonts libraries. This causes `Font.createFont()` fail with `java.lang.UnsatisfiedLinkError`.
 - Corretto does not provide `glibc` libraries imported by URL proxy selector.

Reviewer: nice, thanks. I've added some extra typo fixes to the new text ;)

> This section highlights differences with `eclipse-temurin:8u352-b08-jre-jammy` image (as at the time of writing 8u362 is not yet deployed to Jammy).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This section highlights differences with the `eclipse-temurin:8u352-b08-jre-jammy` image (as at the time of writing, 8u362 is not yet deployed to Jammy).
```

### Image size

|Image|Tag|Uncompressed Size| Compressed Size|
|-----|---|----| ----------------------------|
| eclipse-temurin|8u352-b08-jre-jammy|221MB|80M|

> | ubuntu/chiselled-jre|8_edge| 123MB|46M |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| ubuntu/chiselled-jre|8-22.04_edge| 123MB|46M |
```

better add the `22.04` to the tag, as if "tomorrow" we also build jre8 for 24.04, the 8_edge becomes ambiguous and can point to either one

The major points of difference are:

> - /bin and /usr/bin are removed, which occupy 20MB compressed in Temurin

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `/bin` and `/usr/bin` are removed, which occupy 20MB (compressed) in Temurin
```

> - /var is removed, which occupies 7.7MB due to dpkg

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `/var` is removed, which occupies 7.7MB due to `dpkg`
```

> - only minimal set of libraries is present in /usr/lib/x86_64-linux-gnu, saving 39M

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- only a minimal set of libraries is present in `/usr/lib/x86_64-linux-gnu`, saving 39MB
```

> - contents of /usr/share are not present (31MB), assuming that for things like local time zone information, it is either mapped into the container, or containers run in GMT.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- contents of `/usr/share` are not present (31MB), assuming that for things like local time zone information, it is either mapped into the container or that containers run in GMT.
```

> The JRE differences itself are minimal. Chiselled image removes libawt_xawt.so and libsplashscren.so along with accessibility support. Executables, except `java`, are removed from `jre/bin`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The JRE differences themselves are minimal. The chiselled image removes `libawt_xawt.so` and `libsplashscren.so`, along with accessibility support. Executables, except `java`, are removed from `jre/bin`.
```

> Note: chiselled docker at the moment does not provides classes.jsa (Class Data Cache) in line with Temurin JRE and it has to be generated.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note: the chiselled image, at the moment, does not provide `classes.jsa` (Class Data Cache) in line with Temurin JRE, and thus it has to be generated.
```

Below are image sizes of the deployed `acmeair` benchmark application
|Image|Base Image|Uncompressed Size| Compressed Size|
|-----|---|----| ----------------------------|
| acmeair deployed to WebSphere Liberty official image| websphere-liberty:23.0.0.1-full-java8-ibmjava| 772MB| 507MB|

> | acmeair and WebSphere Liberty deployed to chiselled-jre| ubuntu/chiselled-jre:8_edge | 631MB | 407MB |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| acmeair and WebSphere Liberty deployed to chiselled-jre| ubuntu/chiselled-jre:8-22.04_edge | 631MB | 407MB |
```

| acmeair deployed to Apache Tomcat | tomcat:9.0.71-jre8-temurin-jammy | 258MB | 108MB |

> | acmeair and Apache Tomcat deployed to chiselled-jre | ubuntu/chiselled-jre:8_edge | 164MB | 76M |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| acmeair and Apache Tomcat deployed to chiselled-jre | ubuntu/chiselled-jre:8-22.04_edge | 164MB | 76M |
```

| acmeair Stanalone Spring Boot on Temurin | eclipse-temurin:8u352-b08-jre-jammy | 244MB | 99MB |

> | acmeair Stanalone Spring Boot | ubuntu/chiselled-jre:8_edge | 146MB | 65MB|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| acmeair Stanalone Spring Boot | ubuntu/chiselled-jre:8-22.04_edge | 146MB | 65MB|
```

### Startup time

> The startup times were evaluated by starting a Spring Boot standalone container repeatedly and measuring total JVM time until start of the application as per Spring Boot logs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The startup times were evaluated by starting a Spring Boot standalone container repeatedly and measuring the total JVM time until the start of the application as per Spring Boot logs.
```

The table below shows average startup times (seconds):
|chiselled-jre| chiselled-jre with Class Data Caching| Temurin | Temurin with Class Data Caching|
|-----|---|----| -------------|
|1.03 |0.99328125| 1.04615625|0.989625|

> Adding CDS to `acmeair` allows 5% startup improvement at expense of 6MB compressed and 20MB uncompressed image size increase.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Adding CDS (Class Data Sharing) to `acmeair` allows a 5% startup improvement at expense of a 6MB compressed (and 20MB uncompressed) image size increase.
```

### Throughput tests

> The throughput tests were performed using Apache JMeter 5.5 on `acmeair` application using the following command: ``./apache-jmeter-5.5/bin/jmeter -n -t AcmeAir-v5.jmx -DusePureIDs=true -JHOST=localhost -JPORT=9080 -j performance.log -JTHREAD=1 -JUSER=9999 -JDURATION=120 -JRAMP=60 ;``

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The throughput tests were performed using Apache JMeter 5.5 on `acmeair` application with the following command: ``./apache-jmeter-5.5/bin/jmeter -n -t AcmeAir-v5.jmx -DusePureIDs=true -JHOST=localhost -JPORT=9080 -j performance.log -JTHREAD=1 -JUSER=9999 -JDURATION=120 -JRAMP=60 ;``
```

The table below shows average requests per second:

> | WebSphere Liberty | WebSphere Liberty (chiselled) | Apache Tomcat | Apache Tomcat (chiselled) | Standalone (Temurin) | Standalone (Chiselled) |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| WebSphere Liberty | WebSphere Liberty (chiselled) | Apache Tomcat | Apache Tomcat (chiselled) | Standalone (Temurin) | Standalone (chiselled) |
```

|-------------------|-------------------------------|---------------|-------------|---------|--------|
| 1553.7 | 1704.5 | 1687.7 | 1733.2 | 1778 | 1773.6 |

This test shows no significant differences in performance for OpenJDK-based tests.

### Conclusion

> Chiselled JRE image of OpenJDK 8 provides 42.5% reduction in the size of the compressed image and does not degrade throughput or startup performance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The chiselled JRE image of OpenJDK 8 provides a 42.5% reduction in the size of the compressed image and does not degrade throughput or startup performance.
```

Read more about the repository structure and build automation in [here](<https://github.com/ubuntu-rocks/.github/blob/main/profile/README.md#-joining-the-ubuntu-rocks-project>).

## Image characteristics

> According to Jetbrains 2022 survey of [Developer Ecosystem](https://www.jetbrains.com/lp/devecosystem-2022/java/) 60% of the developers still regularily used Java 8, 59% developed applications for Apache Tomcat and 67% used Spring Boot as an alternative to an application server.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
According to JetBrains' 2022 [Java Developer Ecosystem](https://www.jetbrains.com/lp/devecosystem-2022/java/) survey, 60% of the developers still regularly used Java 8, 59% developed applications for Apache Tomcat and 67% used Spring Boot as an alternative to an application server.
```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
According to JetBrains' 2022 [Java Developer Ecosystem](https://www.jetbrains.com/lp/devecosystem-2022/java/) survey, 60% of the developers still regularly used Java 8, 59% developed applications for Apache Tomcat and 67% used Spring Boot as an alternative to an application server.
```

> New Relic 2022 [Java Ecosystem report](https://newrelic.com/resources/report/2022-state-of-java-ecosystem) listed following top JDK vendors:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
New Relic 2022 [Java Ecosystem report](https://newrelic.com/resources/report/2022-state-of-java-ecosystem) listed the following top JDK vendors:
```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
New Relic 2022 [Java Ecosystem report](https://newrelic.com/resources/report/2022-state-of-java-ecosystem) listed following top JDK vendors:
```

 - Oracle Corporation 34.48%
 - Amazon 22.04%

>  - Eclipse Adoptimum 11.48%

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
 - Eclipse Adoptium 11.48%
```

 - Azul Zulu build of OpenJDK 16%

Snyk 2021 [JVM Ecosystem](https://snyk.io/jvm-ecosystem-report-2021/) had the following breakdown:

>  - Eclipse Adoptimum 44%

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
 - Eclipse Adoptium 44%
```

 - Oracle Corporation OpenJDK 28%
 - Oracle Corporation JDK 23%
 - Azul Zulu build of OpenJDK 16%
 - Amazon Coretto 8%

The differences in the vendor distribution could be attributed to the audience providing survey responses.

> The chiselled JRE container is built based on Ubuntu 22.04 version of Java 8 runtime - `8u352-b08`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The chiselled JRE container is built based on the Ubuntu 22.04 version of Java 8 runtime - `8u352-b08`.
```

This section provides a comparison with readily-available JRE 8 images for Ubuntu 22.04:
 - Eclipse Adoptium: `eclipse-temurin:8u352-b08-jre-jammy`
 - Amazon: `amazoncorretto:8u352-alpine3.14-jre`

Azul Zulu does not provide a JRE image: https://hub.docker.com/r/azul/zulu-openjdk and it was not evaluated.

> Oracle does not provide official image of the Java Runtime Environment 8 and it was not evaluated.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Oracle does not provide an official image of the Java Runtime Environment 8 and it was not evaluated.
```

Reviewer 2: What do you think about including Bitnami's image as part of your comparison? https://hub.docker.com/r/bitnami/java They are not listed in your previous list but do provide a relevant and quite popular image build for Java as part of their images portfolio.

| eclipse-temurin|8u352-b08-jre-jammy|221MB|80M|
| amazoncorretto| 8u352-alpine3.14-jre| 110MB | 41M|
| ubuntu/chiselled-jre|8-22.04_edge| 123MB|46M |

The major points of difference with Temurin image are:
- `/bin` and `/usr/bin` are removed, which occupy 20MB (compressed) in Temurin
- `/var` is removed, which occupies 7.7MB due to `dpkg`
- only minimal set of libraries is present in /usr/lib/x86_64-linux-gnu, saving 39M
- contents of /usr/share are not present (31MB), assuming that for things like local time zone information, it is either mapped into the container, or containers run in GMT.

The major points of difference with Corretto image are:
 - Corretto deploys busybox as a shell
 - Corretto does not have fontconfig/fonts libraries. This causes `java.awt.Font.createFont()` to fail with `java.lang.UnsatisfiedLinkError`.
 - Corretto does not provide `glib` libraries imported by the URL proxy selector. `java.net.ProxySelector.getDefault()` call will always return `Direct Proxy`.

The JRE differences itself are minimal. Th chiselled image removes libawt_xawt.so and libsplashscren.so along with accessibility support. Executables, except `java`, are removed from `jre/bin`.

> Note: chiselled docker at the moment does not provide classes.jsa (Class Data Cache) in line with Temurin JRE and it has to be generated.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note: chiselled images, at the moment, do not provide classes.jsa (Class Data Cache) in line with Temurin JRE and it has to be generated.
```

Reviewer 2: Any useful documentation link on how to generate this?

Below are image sizes of the deployed `acmeair` benchmark application

> |Image|Base Image|Uncompressed Size| Compressed Size|

Reviewer 2: I find this table quite hard to read and compare. I guess the easiest solution would be to split in three tables, one for each "platform" (websphere, springboot, tomcat).

|-----|---|----| ----------------------------|
| acmeair deployed to WebSphere Liberty official image| websphere-liberty:23.0.0.1-full-java8-ibmjava| 772MB| 507MB|
| acmeair and WebSphere Liberty deployed to chiselled-jre| ubuntu/chiselled-jre:8_edge | 631MB | 407MB |
| acmeair and WebSphere Liberty deployed to Corretto| 8u352-alpine3.14-jre | 618MB | 402MB |
| acmeair deployed to Apache Tomcat | tomcat:9.0.71-jre8-temurin-jammy | 258MB | 108MB |
| acmeair and Apache Tomcat deployed to chiselled-jre | ubuntu/chiselled-jre:8_edge | 164MB | 76M |
| acmeair and Apache Tomcat deployed to Corretto| 8u352-alpine3.14-jre | 151MB | 71M |
| acmeair Stanalone Spring Boot on Temurin | eclipse-temurin:8u352-b08-jre-jammy | 244MB | 99MB |
| acmeair Stanalone Spring Boot | ubuntu/chiselled-jre:8_edge | 146MB | 65MB|
| acmeair Stanalone Spring Boot on Corretto | 8u352-alpine3.14-jre | 133MB | 61MB|

> ### Startup time

Reviewer 2: For these tests, would it be possible to explain the characteristics and compute parameters leading to these values? For instance, the main questions would be:

- how many runs? is it an average over X tries?
- what was the hardware used to run these tests?
- did you try it cross architectures? if yes, did you notice any difference? (whether yes or no, this should be mentioned IMO. this would show that the solution works consistently cross architecture or if there are differences, what are they)

Author: Good points. I'll run tests on canonistack and update the document.

The startup times were evaluated by starting a Spring Boot standalone container repeatedly and measuring the total JVM time until the start of the application as per Spring Boot logs.
The table below shows average startup times (seconds):
|chiselled-jre| chiselled-jre with Class Data Caching| Temurin | Temurin with Class Data Caching| Corretto | Corretto with Class Data Caching |
|-----|---|----| -------------|---| ---|
|1.03 |0.99328125| 1.04615625|0.989625| 1.1124375 |  1.06978125 |

Adding CDS (Class Data Sharing) to `acmeair` allows a 5% startup improvement at expense of a 6MB compressed (and 20MB uncompressed) image size increase.

### Throughput tests

> The throughput tests were performed using Apache JMeter 5.5 on `acmeair` application with the following command: ``./apache-jmeter-5.5/bin/jmeter -n -t AcmeAir-v5.jmx -DusePureIDs=true -JHOST=localhost -JPORT=9080 -j performance.log -JTHREAD=1 -JUSER=9999 -JDURATION=120 -JRAMP=60 ;``

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The throughput tests were performed using Apache JMeter 5.5 on the `acmeair` application with the following command: ``./apache-jmeter-5.5/bin/jmeter -n -t AcmeAir-v5.jmx -DusePureIDs=true -JHOST=localhost -JPORT=9080 -j performance.log -JTHREAD=1 -JUSER=9999 -JDURATION=120 -JRAMP=60 ;``
```

The table below shows average requests per second:

| WebSphere Liberty | WebSphere Liberty (chiselled) | Apache Tomcat | Apache Tomcat (chiselled) | Standalone (Temurin) | Standalone (chiselled) |  Standalone (corretto) |
|-------------------|-------------------------------|---------------|-------------|---------|--------| ---|

> | 1553.7 | 1704.5 | 1687.7 | 1733.2 | 1778 | 1773.6 | 1798 |

Reviewer 2: So, Standalone is more or less consistent; but vs Websphere and Tomcat, Chiselled is about 10% better?
Do I read that correctly? (just checksum-ing my understanding, I agree with your conclusion that performance is more or less the same)

Author: Actually after stressing our cloud, it seems that it favors glibc-based images (same performance) and slightly penalises musl for some reason.

This test shows no significant differences in performance for OpenJDK-based tests.

### Conclusion

> The chiselled JRE image of OpenJDK 8 provides a 42.5% reduction in the size of the compressed image compared to Temurin and 11% larger than Amazon Corretto image.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The chiselled JRE image of OpenJDK 8 provides a 42.5% reduction in the size of the compressed image compared to Temurin and 11% larger than the Amazon Corretto image.
```
